And so, we Miburo became
agents of the Aizu Domain.
Whoa! The Shinsengumi were tough!
You caught all the bad guys!
Hey, Nagakura-sensei...
Yes, Tsuru?
Who was the strongest guy
in the Shinsengumi?
The strongest, huh?
That reminds me...
Who among us is truly strong?
When the dust settles,
who will be left standing?
We'll find out with the first ever
Grand Miburo Drinking Contest!
Blue Miburo
It's late! Keep your voices down!
Our hosts, the Yagis, gave us sake
to celebrate our new status,
but the party turned into a ruckus.
Now, Serizawa-sensei will close us out.
Very well.
Kondo-sensei will lead the toast.
To our grand new patron—
K-Kondo-san?!
Who will be the last man standing?
Me!
I will!
He has no tolerance whatsoever.
Why didn't you stop him?!
Toss the corpses to one side.
Anyway, time to party!
Drink up!
My father was always a happy drunk.
I see.
Look, Nio.
This here's a seppuku scar.
Cool, right?
Why'd you take your clothes off?!
What cheap sake.
Who cares? As long as it gets us drunk.
You heard me!
Is that good enough for you?!
I'm asking if you're ready to die!
Well?!
Yamanami-san, what are you
yelling at that wall about?!
I'm still in the game!
Hang in there.
What a waste of time.
He got drunk just sniffing it?!
It's almost over.
I hope none of them get back up.
It's now a duel.
Hijikata-san versus Serizawa-san.
Here, sir.
Hijikata, maybe we oughta
sit down and talk, man-to-man.
Oh?
And what would we discuss?
The Miburo's future.
What do you mean by that?
You don't seem to think too highly
of our answering to Aizu.
I don't mind it.
I just wonder if it's really necessary.
We need a patron to vouch for us.
Why?
It gives us some leeway to go wild.
Serizawa-san.
We didn't come here to throw our
weight around for our own benefit.
What?!
I was born to throw my weight around!
Weren't you?
What drives you to act this way?
You want to know?
My turtle.
Huh?
My older brother stomped my turtle dead.
What? Why?
How should I know?
I let him have it! Punched his
lights out! You should've seen it.
His face puffed up to twice its size.
Well, I can't blame you.
I realize how you must have felt, sir.
I got ordered to my room
without food for three days. He didn't.
I was the fourth son, you see.
I thought that was wrong.
I thought it made no sense.
But I had brawn,
so I decided to take it all.
I want the finest women!
I want to build a castle!
I want my own domain!
Does that sound crazy?
No.
About that castle.
Do you care where you build it?
Hm? What do you mean?
I'd build mine in Hino,
in the countryside outside Edo.
I grew up in Tama,
the Shogun's personal domain.
We didn't exactly want
for nothing, but it wasn't bad.
I get it.
I totally get that hometown feeling.
Pathetic!
Leaving my hometown set me free.
I don't owe it squat.
Don't let where you were born tie you down.
Fight on wherever you end up!
Keep screaming, "Here I am!"
That's what it means to be a man.
Am I right, Nio?
Well...
I want to protect this city I grew up in.
You want to protect the city?!
As if any one person could!
Don't get conceited!
You haven't got a clue.
I'm going to sleep.
He means, "Use your imagination."
We know you care about this city.
But what if you were driven out of it?
Would you just die?
I think that's the point
Serizawa was trying to make.
Anyway, think on it.
I'm turning in, too.
What would I do if I left Kyoto?
I have no idea.
Are they finally all asleep?
It's nearly dawn.
Do you like this city, Taro-kun?
Why would I?! Do you know how
many times I've nearly died here?!
Oh, right.
Why do I like this city?
Granny. Iroha.
I miss you so much now,
and I don't know why.
Hey! Someone's still up!
Inoue-san!
I... win.
The Grand Drinking Contest ended with
Inoue Genzaburo emerging triumphant,
but history took no notice.
Talk about a slow day, huh?
That's the best we can hope for.
I know, but—
Hey.
Isn't this your grandma's
dango place, Nio-kun?
Yes, it is.
Guess I shouldn't be surprised
it's closed at this hour.
Come along, Nio.
Y-Yes, sir.
I sure am hungry for dango now.
Let us make a banner for the Miburo.
Where did this come from?
That may be a good idea.
The sight of a military banner
should discourage wrongdoers.
No, it will look grand.
I've always admired the 47 Ronin of Ako.
A banner?
I think it'd be nice if we all
wore matching coats, too.
That's it!
What kind of coat do we want?
Something stylish and dashing.
No, first the banner—
Wait.
I know an old dango seller
with an eye for fancy clothes.
You mean Nio-kun's grandma, right?
She'd be perfect for the job.
Hijikata-san.
What's this about?
Serizawa-san.
We were discussing
matching coats for our uniforms.
Uniforms?
And a banner.
Would you mind leaving it in my hands?
Make it pale blue-green.
Ah, Inoue-san did win the
Grand Drinking Contest yesterday.
That's a dirty trick!
What does that have to do with this?
Very well.
But make sure mine stands out from the rest.
Nio, get going.
Yes, sir!
Taro, go with him.
Y-Yes, sir!
You, too, Hajime.
What for?!
Good idea. Send the whole boy brigade.
Don't treat me like a kid!
Three glazed!
You got it!
Hey, lady, where's my zenzai soup?
I've been waiting half an hour—
Pipe down.
Stop whining and lend a hand, why don't you?
Granny!
Hi. I'm home.
If it isn't...
Granny!
Who're you?
It's me, Nio!
Did you forget me?! Have you gone senile?!
Who're you calling "senile"?
I recognize you all right, Nio.
But your eyes...
Hm?
Who're you?
This is Taro-kun and Hajime-kun.
They're in the Miburo, too.
I've got new help!
What?
W-Welcome to the Chirinuya.
Speak up, Hajime!
I-I'm a samurai! You can't expect me to do this!
What's that got to do with it?
Look at him.
Another order of dango? Coming right up.
Thanks.
No, thank you!
That'll be 60 mon.
Good work, Taro. You've got
a good head on your shoulders.
This is kind of fun!
Fine, I'll do it. Happy now?
Excuse me, I'd like some dango—
You want dango?
You'd better eat every last one.
Why are you threatening him?
Follow Taro's example.
This is where I really belong!
Thanks.
Don't mention it!
Okay, time to close up shop for the day.
I-I'm dead tired.
Thanks for the help.
Taro, you're so cut out for this business.
I can't stop crying and I don't know why.
Now, clean up.
And make it snappy.
Yes, ma'am!
Yowch.
Granny looks a little shorter than before.
She's tough.
Huh? You mean Granny?
Yeah. I guess you'd call her a master.
No ordinary lady her age
could run this place alone.
It's a pretty big shop.
Yes, you've got a point.
That takes toughness.
I guess the sword isn't
the only way to be strong.
She guards her livelihood
day after day without complaint.
I could never do that.
I hear this whole place burned down once,
but she borrowed money
from all over to rebuild it.
Is that so?
Then she took in my sister,
Iroha, and me, and raised us.
I wonder where she gets
that kind of strength from.
Don't ask me.
I've always wanted to become a
strong person who can protect people,
like Granny does.
I left home so I could
learn how from the Miburo.
So you get it from her.
Huh?
I think I figured out
what makes you so shameless.
Nio! Hajime! Get in here and lend a hand!
Let's go.
Right.
Nio, I almost forgot.
Welcome home.
You came back looking a lot
more grown-up than when you left.
Oh, thank goodness.
Yup! It's good to be home!
I got to come home and
see Granny's face again.
Now, get moving.
Come spend the night, you three.
Thanks. We'd love to.
Excuse me?
You'd better not be thinking
of working us again tomorrow!
Sleepover! Sleepover!
Lucky me!
Matching jackets for the Miburo?
Yeah. Hijikata-san wants you
to think up a design for us.
We're all sleeping over, happy as can be!
We're not going home;
we're sleeping over, all smiley!
Well, I can't turn down such a handsome man.
We're all sleeping over at Granny's place!
Would you shut up already?
I can see Taro-kun's eyes sparkling!
Those Miburo are a funny bunch.
I couldn't believe how much they drank.
They're a bunch of idiots.
This is great! I can't get enough, Granny!
How good could dried sardines be?
Still, the Miburo's job is nabbing rascals
and chopping 'em up, isn't it?
Are you boys really safe with them?
We don't use swords without good reason.
Our job is to make sure the people of Kyoto
can live in peace. We keep the city safe.
Keep the city safe?
Our first duty is guarding the
Tokugawa Shogun who came here from Edo.
Yup. That's important, too.
Keeping the city safe?
That's good. A mighty fine job.
Yeah.
By the way, how's Iroha?
Oh, I'm sure she's fine.
She sends me letters sometimes.
Iroha always hated writing.
She must be working hard.
Right.
After dinner, it's time for a bath.
What? I hate baths.
Yes, yes. I'll take mine later,
so hurry up and take your turns.
Don't peek now.
As if!
I borrowed bedding from the neighbors,
but it'll be a tight fit.
All right!
I'd rather sleep here.
You'll never get a good night's sleep that way.
Samurai don't sleep deeply.
I know just what you mean, Hajime!
You're so excited that
you can't sleep a wink, right?
Get to bed, you.
Granny.
Yes?
Sorry we dropped in so suddenly.
Was it a bother?
Of course not.
Don't say things like that.
Okay.
But what if you were driven out of it?
Would you just die?
What would you do if you couldn't
live here in Kyoto anymore?
What do you mean?
Is that supposed to be funny?
No. I'm serious.
I'd die. This old woman will die here.
If I couldn't stay in Kyoto, I'd die here
on the spot. You ought to know that.
Yeah. I thought you'd say that.
I like it here, so I feel the same way.
But why?
Why does this place mean so much to you?
Why? Well...
I had a real stroke of luck here.
Luck?
I got to live here with you and Iroha, Nio.
I feel that even more now that I'm on my own.
Granny, I want to apologize.
What for?
When I first came here, you invited me
to New Year's shrine visits and festivals,
but I always said no.
Oh, right. You did at first.
To tell you the truth—
You thought you'd get praised for it, right?
"Oh, how patient. How thoughtful."
You knew?
Of course I did.
How many years do you think
I've been a granny for?
I can remember it all with my eyes closed.
You're too young to understand,
but raising kids is a funny thing.
If feels like living life over again.
You and Iroha gave me a new lease on life.
Even if you don't share blood...
the people you meet are treasures.
Living for someone who wasn't me...
Well, it was a world of fun.
That's the kind of place this is.
Nio, meet lots of people
and learn lots of things.
That's what makes a person.
Your granny will die here
with her memories.
I've set my mind on that.
I can't go off and live somewhere else now.
I knew it. My reason for
fighting in Kyoto is clear as day.
'Course, I'm not dying anytime soon!
Now, go to sleep.
Okay. Good night.
The people I care about are here.
All right, we've got a full day
of work ahead of us!
Your extra dango.
And your apricot-seed jelly.
Th-Thank you for waiting!
Granny's right.
If the people who I meet are my treasures...
Welcome!
then that meeting must have been...
the greatest treasure of my life.
Treasure
Next time
Chirinu Nio here.
Man, it sure feels good to be home.
The smell of cooking dango,
the well-worn tatami,
and most importantly,
Granny being her same old self.
I've realized all over again that they
mean more to me than any treasure.
I guess I'll keep finding more and
more treasures to care about, huh?
Next time: "The Weakest Shogun."
The
Weakest
Shogun
I won't let you down.